
This is the 1.2.0 version release of BUNDY.  Corresponding with
this release, ISC has concluded its development work on the BIND
10 code base and it will be maintained and hosted by an outside
group.  ISC will continue to develop BIND 9 and its DHCP software.

BUNDY provides an authoritative DNS server (with in-memory and
SQLite3 backends), DNSSEC support, dynamic DNS, zone transfers.
Supplementary components are included for statistics collection
and reporting and remote configuration and control are included,
as is an experimental recursive nameserver with support for
forwarding. The continuation of this project is known as Bundy and
hosted at http://bundy-dns.de/.  The source will be available via
a public shared Git revision control hosting service with some past
contributors managing the project outside of ISC's guidance. Its
ticketing system and content collaboration will not be hosted by
ISC.

Since the June 2013 1.1.0 release, the new DNS highlights include
incoming zone transfer statistics, support for CAA and TLSA resource
records, and the zone loader now supports the zone file $GENERATE
directive.  Note that the bundy-xfrin "use_ixfr" configuration item
is deprecated and a new configuration "zones/request_ixfr" may be
used to replace it.  Also use "database_file" under the "data_sources"
module for bundy-xfrin inbound transfers and use bundy-loadzone -e
option to create an empty zone prior to the first transfer.

The suite also provides DHCPv4 and DHCPv6 servers, a dynamic DNS
component, a DHCP performance testing program, and a C++ library
for DHCP.  ISC is continuing with the development of these components
in a new project, Kea.  The versions of these components in the BIND
10 release correspond to Kea 0.8.

Since the June 2013 release, Kea has introduced many new DHCP
features including support for relayed DHCPv6 traffic, the dynamic
DNS updates module, a Hooks framework for customizing and extending
DHCP behavior, Client FQDN Option, DHCPv4 Host Name option, Prefix
Delegation (IA_PD and IAPREFIX options), Vendor Class option,
support for sending back client-id, client classification at the
basic level, ability to respond to directly-connected clients which
do not have IP addresses, interface detection for FreeBSD, NetBSD,
OpenBSD, Mac OS X and Solaris 11, Rebind message support for the
DHCPv6 server, an experimental PostgreSQL database backend for
leases, and CSV file storage for in-memory leases.

For information about the Kea project, please visit http://kea.bundy.org/.
If you have any questions or comments about working with the DHCP
code, you may post them to the Kea DHCP Mailing List
https://lists.bundy.org/mailman/listinfo/kea-users.

For the full commit history, please see the ChangeLog and the git
Log.  This release doesn't introduce any code changes since last
week's release candidate.

The bundy-1.2.0 source may be downloaded from:

  ftp://ftp.bundy.org/bundy/bundy/1.2.0/bundy-1.2.0.tar.gz

A PGP signature of the distribution is at

  ftp://ftp.bundy.org/bundy/bundy/1.2.0/bundy-1.2.0.tar.gz.sha512.asc

The signature was generated with the ISC code signing key which is
available at https://www.bundy.org/about/openpgp

Installation details are documented in the Guide.  In addition,
installation suggestions for various operating systems are available
via our wiki http://bundy.bundy.org/wiki/InstallStartPage.  (Please
note that there are build regressions on Solaris platforms for the
DNS code.)  The ./configure options --disable-dns and --disable-dhcp
may be used to provide an optional DHCP- or DNS-only build and
installation.

BUNDY was a sponsored development project, and would not be possible
without the generous support of the past sponsors:  AFNIC, Afilias,
CIRA, CNNIC, CZ.NIC, DENIC eG, Google, IIS.SE, JPRS, Nominet, .nz Registry
Services, RIPE NCC, Registro.br, SIDN, and Technical Center of Internet.
Support for the new DHCPv4 and DHCPv6 components is provided by
Comcast.

As the release engineer for the past 34 development snapshots and
release versions, I'd like to thank the many contributors, sponsors,
and developers for their assistance with this project.

Jeremy C. Reed
ISC Release Engineering
